---
layout: post
title: "Random Thoughts"
date: 2021-6-22
lang: en
translated: true
---

Random thoughts are not conducted while programming. This needs to be clarified. [Program-Think](https://program-think.blogspot.com/) is our [V](https://g.co/kgs/gZUVrj).

You should know that when I write these words, they have already repeated in my mind at least a thousand times. Each of these incoherent thoughts, I don't have time to sort them out. This is the second thing I want to make clear.

Sugar-free sugar water, caffeine-free beverages, meatless meat patties - these are all the best metaphors of our time. Form only, no essence.

Isn't McLuhan's re-tribalization just beginning? How could the new era of oral culture possibly be reversed by a small group of bookworms?

Those who can withstand censorship continue to write in that environment, those who can't bear it come out. Having a sensitive nose is no one's fault.

Because I hid my true feelings of disgust and was mistaken for a friend and even received gifts. Most of the time when I can't speak, it's roughly for this reason.

At a book club discussion about mythology, a guy's flawless understanding from polytheism to monotheism to atheism made me want to boo, but it seemed like everyone didn't understand that I was trying to mock this "I've figured everything out" attitude. After this incident, this guy still wanted to have dinner with me, and a friend I respect also stopped contacting me. Don't Chinese people have a tradition of booing in real life?

I want to invite people I dislike to my home for dinner, make mouth-watering braised pork, and deliberately cut the meat into large pieces - that should choke them to death!

Although I don't think Shuang Xuetao can necessarily feel much of the vitality in the Bible, he at least thinks it's better to read more, which seems quite lovely.

Divine indifference is not caring about caring - with mortal perception, what's there to talk about great sorrow and great joy.

Self-important men who are unaware of it are the most disgusting. Self-important women who are unaware of it, I haven't seen any yet.